My Curriculum Vitae
=========

ROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
-------
* Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR: Jan 2014-Present
 Graduate Research Assistant: "An Open Source Tool for the Visualization, Analysis and Reporting of Regional and Statewide Transit Networks" (funded by ODOT)

 An advanced web-based Transit Network Analysis software tool (TNA) was developed from scratch. The TNA software tool can visualize all public transit networks (e.g. stops and routes) in Oregon state using their `GTFS` data, as well as generating advanced reports based on both transit networks and census data. The server part of the tool is in `Java` and uses the open source spatial database `PostgreSQL/PostGIS` as data repository along with `Hibernate` relational object mapping library. The client part is in `JavaScript/HTML` using `jQuery`, `LeafLet`, `jQuery-UI` and other JavaScript libraries. Client and server applications communicate using a RESTFUL API.
 
 Note: For more information, see: http://tnasoftware.osu3.com/TNAtoolAPI-Webapp/wiki
 
 Note: A live version of the TNA software tool can be accessed at: http://tnasoftware.osu3.com/TNAtoolAPI-Webapp
 
* Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR: Aug 2012-Dec 2013
 Graduate Research Assistant: "Proof of concept: GTFS data as a basis for optimization of Oregon's regional and statewide transit networks" (funded by ODOT)
 
 This project involved developing a software tool to visualize, analyse and generate reports of Oregon state transit network data (GTFS) using available open source tools and software. `Open Trip Planner`, an open source trip planner software in Java was used as a basis to develop the final product.
 
 Note: For more information, see: http://tnasoftware.osu3.com/TNAtoolAPI-Webapp/wiki/#!project.md#Phase_1
 
* Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR: Jan 2012-Dec 2012
 Graduate Research Assistant: "Permanent freight data collection infrastructure and archive system" (funded by ODOT)
 
 Designed, developed and deployed vehicle length classification devices based on signals generated by `dual inductive loop sensors`. As part of the project, I designed voltage level converter/interface circuits to covert sensor signals voltage levels so that can be fed to `Single Board Computers (SBC)`. The SBCs run `Linux` and a data collection software to process the signals and generate data file archives. The data collection software was developed in `C programming language`, and provides Length, Speed, and raw sensor data as well as error flags to indicate inconsistencies in input signals.
 
* Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR: Sep 2010-Dec 2011
 Graduate Teaching Assistant and Lab Instructor: Information Systems Engineering, Simulation, Engineering Economics and Project Management courses.

* Sharif University of technology, Tehran, Iran	Mar: 2003-June 2010
 Instructor for Computer lab course (introduction to computer hardware, operating systems and programming)
 Teaching Assistant for Computer Information Systems (CIS) course
 Network administrator in IE department main computer lab: Maintaining Windows and Linux workstations and servers.
 
* Systemgroup Co., Tehran, Iran: Apr 2007-Aug 2010
 Project Manager and Assistant in SG education center.
 Researcher in SGNEC (SG Network Engineering Center), VOIP service deployment in SG.
 
* Samasamaneh, Tehran, Iran: Jul 2005-Sep 2006
 Software deployment team member: contracts management software deployment in IFCO.
 Translator, Editor, and Proofreader: IEEE software engineering standards translation.

PUBLICATIONS	
-------
### Papers in Preparation

* Ghanbartehrani, S., Porter, J.D. "A Transit Stop Location Methodology to Optimize Accessibility" to be submitted to Proceedings of the 2015 Industrial and Systems Engineering Research Conference.

* Ghanbartehrani, S., Porter, J.D. "An algorithm for solving Transportation Location Problem" to be submitted to IIE Transactions

### Conference Proceedings
	
* Ghanbartehrani, S., Porter J.D. "A Transit Stop Location Methodology to Optimize Accessibility", submitted to IIE Annual Conference 2015. June 2015. Nashville, TN.

* Porter, J.D., Kim, D.S., Ghanbartehrani, S.  "GTFS Data as a Basis for Optimization of Large Scale Transit Networks." Presented at the Oregon Public Transportation Conference 2013. October 2013. Bend, OR.

* Porter, J.D., Kim, D.S., Ghanbartehrani, S., Mohseni, S.A. "Open Source Tool for Visualization, Analysis and Reporting of Regional and Statewide Transit Networks." Presented at the Oregon Public Transportation Conference 2014. October 2014. Seaside, OR.

* Ghanbartehrani, S., Porter J.D. "GIS Based Facility Location." Presented at the Industrial and Systems Engineering Research Conference (ISERC) 2013. May 2013. San Juan, PR.

### Technical Reports

* J. David Porter, David S. Kim, Saeed Ghanbartehrani. Proof Of Concept: GTFS Data as a Basis for Optimization of Oregon's Regional and Statewide Transit Networks. Published by ODOT research, May 2014. Accessible at: http://www.oregon.gov/ODOT/TD/TP_RES/docs/Reports/2014/SPR752_GTFS_Data.pdf

### Scholarly Posters

* Porter, J.D., Kim, D.S., Ghanbartehrani, S., Mohseni, S.A. "An Open Source Transit Network Analysis Tool based on GTFS data." Presented at the Oregon Transportation Summit 2014. September 2014. Portland, OR.

INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING SKILLS
---------
* Discrete event simulation and system dynamics, Production planning, Inventory management, Information systems design and analysis, Facility location, Optimization, Project management, Engineering economics, Design of experiments, Lean manufacturing. 

COMPUTER SKILLS
---------
* Programming: `Java`, `VB`, `VBA`, `C`, and `Matlab`
* Web Programming: `HTML`, `CSS`, `JavaScript` and JavaScript libraries such as `jQuery`, `jQuery-UI`, `D3`, `Leaflet`, `jstree`, `DataTables`, etc.
* Database and Query Languages: `My SQL`, `PostgreSQL/Post GIS`, `HQL`, and `MS Access`
* Simulations: `Arena`, `Simul8`, & `Vensim`
* CAD & 3D modeling: `Auto CAD` and `3DS Max`
* Other: `MS Office`, `MS Visio`, & `MS project`

HONORS AND AWARDS
----------
* Outstanding graduate research assistant award, 2013-2014 academic year, School of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering, Corvallis, OR.

* MIME fellow, 2010-2011 academic year, School of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering, Corvallis, OR.

* Ranked 10th in national Master of Science entrance examination in industrial engineering (among 5000 applicants), 2007, Tehran, Iran.

* Ranked 667th in national Bachelor of Science entrance examination (among 400,000 applicants), 2002, Tehran, Iran.

REFERENCES
--------
* J. David Porter, Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, Oregon State University.
  Phone: (541) 737-2446
  Email: david.porter@oregonstate.edu

* David S. Kim, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, Oregon State University.
  Phone: (541) 737-8858
  Email: david.kim@oregonstate.edu

* Matthew Barnes, Transit Network Program Coordinator, Oregon Department of Transportation.
  Phone: (503) 986-4051
  Email: matthew.m.barnes@odot.state.or.us